# Liam's ribosomal depletion identifier

Liam will investigate a method of identifying ribo-depletion samples based on gene expression values using RNA-Seq data.

This is an important project for Treehouse.  Our overall goal is that every kid with cancer have a treatment option, which is not currently the case.
We take advantage of the relatively recent development of targeted drugs.
Unlike chemotherapies, which indiscriminately target all dividing cells in the body, targeted therapies affect a pathway or class of molecules.
In adults, these activated pathways are often identified with a mutation, but mutation in analysis in kids is usually less fruitful because fewer clinically actionable mutations are known, in part because fewer mutations exist.
Consequently, we seek to identify pathways with transcriptional evidence of activation, and we use comparative RNA-Seq analysis to accomplish it.

To identify highly expressed genes, our RNA-Seq analysis compares the focus sample with other tumor samples.
Current methods require tumor samples to be prepared with polyA selection and not ribosomal depletion.
The documentation of each subset of the 11,000+ samples available for comparison has been carefully examined to ensure the samples are comparable.
Unfortunately, we have found that some documentation is inaccurate, which can lead to us mistakenly including incomparable samples and reducing the accuracy of our analysis.
Being able to reliably identify samples prepared with ribosomal depletion will allow us to avoid that problem.

Ultimately, we would like to be able to make comparisons using samples prepared with ribosomal depletion as well as polyA selection.
A separate project is underway to come up with a method to make them comparable.
When that project is complete, we will need to be able to reliably categorize a sample as ribosomally-depleted to determine which samples need to undergo this transformation.
Liam's work will be essential if we are to combine the XXXX ribosomally-depleted samples to our existing polyA-selected compendium.
